# datanoisy-pfdfs-paper
An Exploratory Analysis of Data Noisy Scenarios in a Pareto-Front Based Dynamic Feature Selection Method

This repository is responsible for storing and making available the code of the datasets used in the article "An Exploratory Analysis of Data Noisy Scenarios in a Pareto-Front Based Dynamic Feature Selection Method" submitted to the Applied Soft Computing journal. It is important to emphasize that the datasets were generated by the Matlab tool, so it is required to use it to access them.

The "Datasets" folder contains three files referring to databases, namely:

1. Datasets_ASOC2020_Original.mat: Cell with the 15 original databases, with no artificial noise added, used in the paper.
2. Datasets_ASOC2020_Noise_IA.mat: Cell with 15 databases, for each noise rate (10%, 30% and 50%), with the insertion of artificial noise without changing the pre-existing features, used in the article. [Regarding Insertion Analysis / AI]
3. Datasets_ASOC2020_Noise_TA.mat: Cell with the 15 databases, for each noise rate (10%, 30% and 50%), with the transformation of the original features into noise, used in the paper. [Regarding Transformation Analysis / AT]

In this experimental analysis, we selected 15 datasets of distinctive areas, such as bioinformatics, signature images, text data, and signal processing. We attempt to include datasets with different natures in terms of instances, features, and classes. The datasets were collected from five repositories: OpenML (OpML) [1],  Bioinformatics Research Group of Seville repository (BIGS) [2], UCI Machine Learning (UCI) [3], Ludmila Kuncheva Collection (LKC) [4], and Arizona State University (ASU) [5].

A brief description of the application domains for each dataset is presented as follows.

B01 item {LSVT}: LSVT dataset is composed of 126 instances of vowel phonation /a/ with 310 dysphonia measure to characterize speech signals of individuals with Parkinson disease as acceptable (84 instances) or unacceptable (42 instances).
			    				     
B02 {Breast Cancer Diagnostic}: Breast Cancer Diagnostic dataset consists of 569 cells of nucleus patterns (357 malignant and 212 benign) computed from a digitized image obtained by a breast mass aspiration needle. These images are characterized by 32 features. The main objective of this dataset is to define whether the extracted instances are benign or malignant. 

B03 {Connectionist Bench}: Connectionist Bench dataset was created based on 208 instances of sonar signals reflected in metal cylinders (111 instances) or rocks (97) from different angles.
    
B04 {Ionosphere}: Ionosphere is a dataset containing 351 radar returns from the ionosphere, divided as suitable (225 returns) and unsuitable (126 returns).
    
B05 {PCMAC}: PCMAC represents a text dataset containing 1943 instances described in 3289 attributes. The attributes represent the frequency at which words appear in the text contained in the instances (982 instances for found class and 961 for not found).
    
B06 {Friedman}: Friedman is a dataset artificially generated by the Friedman function. In general, this function is used to generate data including linear and non-linear relationships between instances and the class labels, in addition to generating noise. The dataset consists of 1000 instances and 100 attributes.
    
B07 {Colon Cancer}: Colon Cancer dataset represents a set of patterns of gene expression revealed by grouping of tumor and normal colon tissues, probed by oligonucleotide arrays. This dataset is made up of 2000 genes as features and 62 tissue instances (22 normal colon tissues and 40 colon tumor tissues).
    
B08 {Madelon}: Madelon is an artificial dataset used in the NIPS feature selection challenge in 2003. The main characteristic of this dataset is strong non-linear correlations between its data. It consists of 4400 continuous numerical instances and 500 attributes. The instances are equally divided into two classes, 50\% for each one. 
    
B09 and B10 {Simulated and Gassuian}: Simulated and Gaussian are synthetic datasets that simulate data from microarray, with the main objective of testing machine learning algorithms in the analysis of gene expression. Both data sets have 60 instances and 600 attributes. For Simulated, instances are divided into six classes (8 instances for class I, 12 for class II, 10 for class III, 15 for class IV, 5 for class V and 10 for class VI). In the Gaussian dataset, instances are divided equally into three classes, 20 instances for each. 
    
B11 {Hill Valley}: The 1212 instances of Hill Valley dataset are represented by 100 points on a two-dimensional graph. The generated graph from these points forms "peaks" (600 instances) and "valleys" (612 instances) in some of their coordinates.
    
B12 {Breast Cancer Prognostic}: As in the Breast Cancer Diagnostic dataset, the Prognostic version uses digitized images of breast tissues as input. Instead of classifying the instances in terms of malignancy, this base aims to identify whether there was a recurrence of cancer in previously treated patients. Breast Cancer Prognostic has 198 instances and 34 attributes. This data is classified as "recurring" (47 instances) or "non-recurring" (151 instances).
    
B13 {Laryngeal1}: The Laryngeal1 dataset contains different signals captured from patient voices. These signs are used to help identify the presence (P) or absence (A), of pathologies in the larynx in early stages. The dataset is structured in 213 instances (81 for A and 132 for P) and 16 attributes. 

B14 {Weaning}: Weaning is a dataset that stores 302 instances with information about patients with respiratory failure, users of artificial ventilation. From these data, patients are classified as fit (151 instances) or unfit (151 instances) to start hospital feeding.
    
B15 {SPECTF HEART}: The SPECTF Heart dataset aims to identify the normality of images from Proton Emission Computed Tomography (SPECTF), classifying them as normal (55 instances) or abnormal (212 instances). The instances were gathered from patient exams, totaling 267 instances characterized by 44 continuous features.

For further information and questions, please contact: jhoseph.kelvin@gmail.com
						       anne@dimap.ufrn.br
						       daniel@imd.ufrn.br

REFERENCES

[1]  J. Vanschoren, J. N. van Rijn, B. Bischl, L. Torgo, Openml:  Networked science in machine learning, SIGKDD Explorations 15 (2) (2013) 49-60. doi:10.1145/2641190.2641198. URL http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/2641190.2641198

[2]  B. G. Seville, BIGS bioinformatics research group of seville repository (2004).

[3]  D.  Dheeru,  E.  Karra  Taniskidou,  UCI  machine  learning  repository (2017). URL http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml

[4]  L. Kuncheva, Ludmila k. collection lkc (2004).URL http://pages.bangor.ac.uk/~mas00a/activities/real_data.htm

[5]  J. Li, K. Cheng, S. Wang, F. Morstatter, T. Robert, J. Tang, H. Liu,Feature selection:  A data perspective, arXiv:1601.07996 (2016).
    
